You may either install the prebuilt 9pcram.gz and its optional
tools.tgz, or build the kernel (and optional .tgz) locally.  The file
doc/PLAN9.INI is an example of a plan9.ini file which works with the
rootless kernel in a stock plan9 fossil install.  (Add the venti= if
needed).  From a fresh install from the bell labs .iso, just copying
9pcram.gz, tools.tgz, and doc/PLAN9.INI to the 9fat is a complete
install of the toolkit.  Make any adjustsments for your specific
hardware as needed to the PLAN9.INI file.  It may also be useful to
install hubfs and grio and the scripts and namespace files also to the
host system, but this is not required.

9front is supported with the 9ants kernel built by build 9front. Please see
the frontmods/README file for more information.

You may also build everything locally.  The build script uses binds to
work only within the rootless directory and leave all existing system
src unmodified.  It has the following modes:

build - with no arguments, this builds a 9pcram.gz kernel with the
kernel and its compilation files located in compiletemp. Requires 
build extras build patched build bootpaq be run first.

build 9front - this builds a 9ants kernel and copies it to the root of
the ants directory

build ramfs - this uses a ramfs for the compile and copies only the
9pcram.gz kernel to compiletemp.

build bootpaq - builds the bootpaq which is compiled into the kernel

build tools - this creates a tools.tgz using the list of tools in
root/lib/_toolcopy

build patched - this compiles the slightly modified versions of rc and
factotum adapted to the early namespace

build extras - this compiles hubfs and grio, screen-like hubs for
persistent rcs and a modified rio to work in grid namespaces

build clean - this simply runs mk clean with the necessary binds to
clear out the compiletemp folder

build everything - runs build clean build patched build tools build
extras build bootpaq build

build isoinstall - can be run after build everything to modify a Bell
Labs default install fresh from the .iso

build 9frontinstall - installs to a clean 9front install after build 9front
change the default privpassword=rootless in plan9.ini and other values
as needed for local configuration

build portsinstall - installs from 9front-ports tree without modifying
9fat or system files

build portsuninstall - uninstall components installed by portsinstall

The 9pcram.gz kernel and optional .tgz are placed in the conventional
9fat partition.  Conventional plan9.ini variiables are mostly
supported, with many new optional additions.  The most important are:

interactive= if not provided, of if set to "traditional" the plan9rc
scripts attempts to emulate the traditional bootprompts, while also
executing any new options found from plan9.ini.  Set interactive=yes
to be prompted for all options throughout the boot process.  Set
interactive=no for automated bootup with no prompting unless an error
condition is hit.

factotum= rootstart= these default to 'cpu' because the 9pcram kernel
is compiled with that flag set.  This means factotum will start in the
same way as a cpu server and the /rc/bin/cpurc from any mounted root
will be started.  If you wish to produce terminal style behavior, set
both of these to "terminal".  It is also possible to run cpurc with
terminal factotum or vice-versa, if you understand what you are doing
and why.

tgzfs= if you wish to load an optional tools.tgz or other named extra
set of utilities into the bootup ramdisk, set this tools.tgz (or the
name of your toolset.)

full explanation of all new plan9.ini possibilities and their defaults
is found within the doc subdirectory.

page doc/ants.ps ## please do this to read the full Giant ANTS paper
also

nroff -man doc/plan9rc.man ## the full documentation for plan9rc
bootup
